Titel: Bad Lieutenant

If you're geting a bit tired of »cannibal mutant nuns from beyond the grave«, I much recommend Bad Lieutenant by homeboy Abel Ferrara. Forget that he made that awful Bodysnatchers and remember that this is the man that has made Driller Killer, Ms: 45, King of New York and the forthcoming Snake Eyes (with Madonna). Bad Lieutenant is a real bad assed film and the realistic looks and crude editing of the film put it in the same league as Henry- Portrait of a Serial Killer. The milieu is definitely 'Abel-Land', filthy streets with even filthier people inhabiting them. Co-written by Ms: 45 herself Zoe Lund, Abel has made his best film to date.

As the bad lieutenant we have Harvey Keitel (give this man a Oscar now!) who does one of his best performances along with those in Reservoir Dogs and Mean Streets. There is no doubt that he is one of the best actors working today, a more explosive, angry and frustrated portrait hasn't been done in years. As the bad lieutenant he not only struggles with a very big dept to the local loan shark but has major problems with too much alcohol and drugs. Just like in Hill Street Blues, Not! As if that was not enough he cheats on his wife, steals money from thieves and masturbates in front of young girls. Things goes fine (!) until a young nun gets brutally raped by some punks. At first Keitel don't give a shit about her but as the film goes on he gets in more trouble that he ever could imagine and he starts to sympathize with the nun. The nun refuses to tell the police who the punks are, and Keitel wonders how she can forgive them. He slowly realizes that he is no better than the punks and wants forgiveness for all his sins. I won't write too much about this masterpeice, I leave it too you to explore one of the most brutal film in years. Not as graphic as you could expect, the violence lies under the surface, not on it. Don't let that frighten you, see this film or you regret that the rest of your life.

[ Christer ]
