Titel: Bruce Campbell (Interview) Violent Vision #1, 1996

Sam Raimi once said that if Bruce Campbell is in pain, the audience is having a good time. At the age of only 22, Campbell and childhood friends Sam Raimi and brother Ted Raimi together with Robert Tappert started Renaissance Pictures, for which they shot several 8mm movies, including Attack of the Helping Hand, The Blind Waiter, Cleveland-Bounty Hunter and Within the Woods. On basis of this they raised enough money to shoot the 16mm classic Evil Dead in 1982. You've later seen his antics in Evil Dead 2, Army of Darkness, the two first Maniac Cop films, Crime-wave, Lunatics, Sundown, Mindwarp, Intruder and most recently on the big screen in Congo and Escape from L.A..

Late in October 1996, the busy Campbell was kind enough to take part in the following brief career update interview.
Interview by Peter Danielsson, Björn Schagerström and Christer Persson.

What have you been up to lately?
-I've been pretty busy, look for me in the following: As a jaded, pissed-off jerk of a mechanic in the TV movie update of The Love Bug due out on ABC in early '97.
As a revolutionary computer wizard in the cyber-adventure film, Menno's Mind, for Show-time. No air date yet.
As the voice of »Fin« in the CD-ROM adventure game Cold-Blooded due out end of the year some time - check those Comp USA stores!
As one of Tom Arnold's sidekicks (Virgil, the skirt chaser) in Universal's McHale's Navy. Probably to be released Spring of '97.

As an ex-con in a gritty crime drama called Running Time, formerly called Blood Money (wow - Black and White!) I play a guy who sets out to rob the prison laundry system where he worked for 5 years (while in the pen) and re-capture his wasted youth in the process. It's an independent effort, bound for Art House Theaters, directed by a long-time associate Josh Becker (Lunatics: A Love Story, Thou Shalt Not Kill...Except). No release date yet.

As a new Bookstore »manager« on Disney/ABC TV's Ellen, starring Ellen Degeneres. I play a just-doing-his-job nice guy (ED), who is brought in to run Ellen's bookstore after she sells it. Right now, I'm not sure how many episodes in total I'll be in - there is no determination what my status is, i.e. recurring, etc. This all kind of just happened...

As an old-time sportswriter in a new batch of Nike Ads for College football on ABC. I do play-by-play during classic football moments. As usual, I don't know when they'll run.

As the voice of »Jake,« for a cool Doom-like Video game called Broken Helix for Konami. It's a hard-edged, multi-level game that will blow all those other losers away. I could tell you more, but then I'd have to kill you. Watch for it near the end of the year-ish.

As Gene, a rogue-ish yet sophisticated Genie who courts the beautiful »computer genie,« Lisa (Vanessa Angel), on USA's Weird Science, the show based on the mid-eighties flick of the same name. I'm not sure when it will be on the air, so check those local listings - watch it or no more wishes for you!

As a modern-day »Clyde-esque« bank robber living on the edge in the NBC TV movie Jeff and Jill, opposite Full House's Lori Laughlin. No air date yet. If you miss it, I'll rob your bank...

Also, I recently closed a new deal with Disney Television to develop a new 1 hour, 8:00, action-based television show. The actual idea has not been determined yet. It'll take months formulate and would ideally hit the air in the Fall of '97.

How did you end up in John Carpenter's Escape from L.A?
-Escape From L.A.... I knew John Carpenter casually from previous encounters, and we decided to try to work out some wacky character for me to play, and the Surgeon General of Beverly Hills was born.

Recently, for instance, Clive Barker's homemade pre-Hellraiser films has been released onto video. Is there any chance that we'll ever see Within the Woods, the film that developed into the first Evil Dead?
-As far as I know, there are no plans to release any of the many films my friends and I made before Evil Dead. However, eventually a remastered Evil Dead will be available on laser disc. We've redone the sound and cleaned up a few things here and there.

We've heard rumours regarding a fourth Evil Dead film. Is there any truth behind this?
-There are currently no plans to do another Evil Dead flick. Time, economics and the schedules of the principal participants are all factors. However, I would be happy to do another one if Sam Raimi directs. You never know...

Do you still have much contact with the underground scene? Do you hear from fans outside the U.S?
-Actually, Evil Dead got it's start in the British market, so for as long as I've been in films, I've at least been seen outside of the U.S. I think the Internet is opening up a lot of doors as well. I recently did an interview for a Finnish magazine, and in France they celebrate »Bruce Campbell Day.«

You've gone from horror to TV-shows such as Brisco County, Jr and Lois & Clark. What do you enjoy the most? The creative freedom of independent filmmaking or the more restricted but »easier« television?
-I will always appreciate the creative freedom of independent films, but typically the work you do gets seen by more people when you do TV, so it goes both ways.

Apart from Jackie Chan we've not seen anyone else get beaten up and thrown around so frequently like you. Any fond memories of an injury?
-On the final shot of the first Evil Dead when the camera was quickly sneaking up and overtaking me, the camera didn't quite stop in time (Sam Raimi was shooting from a motorcycle) and broke one of my ribs. Fortunately, it was the last shot of the film!

Do you believe that horror still has a commercial future in the U.S.?
-Yes. As long as people can keep dreaming up new ways to spew blood on half-naked coeds.

You also produce films. What's your role as producer?
-I've executive produced and co-produced. In very simplified terms, as executive producer, I helped make sure there was enough money to make the movie, and as co-producer, I made sure the air conditioning in my trailer worked (?).

Any future projects?
-Oh yes, plenty. I've got a whole lot of zany projects and ideas I plan to see through. Next year, I'll be making my directorial debut with a psychological thriller named Night Man about a night custodian who accidentally kills a student and things get ultimately less pleasant from there.