Titel: Jack Stevenson (Interview) Violent Vision #?, 1999
As a collector of, distributor of and writer about movies Jack Stevenson has a lot to say. He is a Movie maniac. Interview and intro | Christer Persson
Jack Stevenson came to our town with a couple of his filmshows. He brought with him 16 and 35 millimeter prints of old classics like The Tingler and a wide variety of old trailers, 3D film and so forth. He took the small, but interested crowd by the collar and presented a kind of filmculture that's virtually gone today in America and never really appeared here on our shores. When I met him he turned out to be an articulate friendly man who knew what he was talking about. It turned out that he'd done many things over the years as well. An awful lot of things. He had done fanzines containing his correspondence with the likes of Charles Bukowski, Charles Manson and John Waters. John Waters with whom he made friends he'd done several interviews appearing in the books Desperate Visions and Camp America (Creation Books). He's a collector of filmprints, of which he has about five hundred of at home, all 16 or 35 millimeters. Making himself a living he travels around in Europe and give shows along with writing articles and books. During the interview we talked about different things such as why he lives in Denmark, the current condition of the underground movement, the importance of Ann Margrets Kitten with a whip, crazed punkrocker GG Allin, Drivers Education films and why the hell are all snuff films shot with a super 8 camera?
Hello! Why are you doing this? Eh, that's a pretty broad question, I'm doing this in Europe right now because I was a film collector and a filmshow organizer in America since the mid-eighties and then when I moved to Denmark in 1993 I needed to stay active and I wanted to work with a job that I liked. And I became a distributor, teacher and a writer in this fringe areas of film partly so I wouldn't have to learn Danish. I wanted to work with what I like doing, because I worked in America like forty or fifty different jobs, I was a cabdriver, a dishwasher, worked in a printshop for three years, worked in hotels, so, yeah I like film so I've hacked out sort of a place for myself on the outer edges of B-movies fringe culture.
Do your wife like what you're doing? Yeah she was the editor of Cosmorama, the Danish filmmagazine for five years. She comes from a bit of a different perspective and we like different films, some films we like the same, but, yeah, she has a sense of humour and I mean she doesn't like all the same films, I made her watch Frankenstein Meets the Space Monster and she thought it was the biggest load of crap in the world, but...
It probably was... Yes, absolutely!
Is there a movement left that can be labeled underground, and if so what is underground today? Underground would be different from what we've seen this week. What we've seen this week, the gimmicks and stuff, that is commercial exploitation, B- movies exploitation. Underground I would term it as personal film making against Hollywood and changing around the forms and language and the expressions of film. It has kind of a radical connotation to it. And there definitive is more of an underground than ever with video, it has changed a little bit, videos made it easier for people to make films so naturally there are a lot of films that are... I mean if you were making a film before, then I talk about in America, because you can still make a film, there are people making films shot on 16 mm sometimes 35 mm who nobody knows about.
Like Jim Van Bebber... Yeah, Van Bebber, these people who come out of nowhere. I was a distributor for Deadbeat at Dawn actually.
Its a great movie. It's a great movie. He wanted it back a few months ago because I couldn't get enough shows for it. These are people that are not being tracked, they come out of nowhere. This crazy person been working on a film for three years and then he comes up with something pretty insane, I mean, that's great. Whereas in Denmark, probably also in Sweden, anybody who makes a movie is part of the Film Institute or the Film Workshop. They are part of an institute...
More so in Danmark Yeah, you could look at a small sheet of paper and you know all the films that are being made. In America it is still more of a renegade, kind of, you know, some kind of crazy person could be working on this in his attic after work and he could still be paying for it with the money he makes of his day-job, but the price of making a film in Scandinavia is too expensive. You have to to be, somehow, attached or working within an institution. But with video.. yeah, more people are making stuff and that's great. Some people accuse me of being anti-video, but I'm pro-video on the production side. I think it's the greatest thing if you're not paying all your money to Kodak. I don't think you should be paying a lot of money to these big corporations to make a film, I mean, that's bad. So it's better if people have the freedom and you give them the equipment. So it is good from a production end, but the only problem I have is from an exhibition end, because video exhibition is still, some theatres have videos, big screen videoprojection, but it's usually very poor quality. And the small theatres that would show strange or underground films usually have pretty bad videoprojection. So, the underground, to worm myself back to the original question, I asked the same question to George Kuchar who was a famous underground filmmaker in the sixties. I asked him ten years ago and he said, »Yeah, there's a lot happening, there's tons of stuff happening«, and he was right, and it is happening more than ever now. People are turning to film and video, but it is changing what people are rebelling against is changing, you know, what they are concerned with. And there isn't a social movement like it was in the sixties that was very much a social movement, people knew each other. It kind of came out of the beatnik movement. And certainly that changed, there was a cinema of transgression in the eighties in New York that was a little bit the same but much smaller.
But they where quite extreme weren't they? Yeah, if you look back at them now they seem pretty tame actually, they seem kind of cliché in a way, and very eighties kind of, but that was what they set out to do, to be extreme. Then there is people working in San Francisco, I think that could be considerated very much a focus on underground filmmaking. There are the Film Arts Foundation that helps provide money for filmmakers and there are a lot of interesting stuff coming out of San Francisco. So, yeah, the underground is there and it's as healthy as ever and it's hard to define as ever too...
Is there any way for the filmmakers to show their films, or do they have sites on the Internet? So people can find them somehow? Some people has gone on the Internet, Sarah Jacobson a filmmaker from San Francisco has always had a presence on the Internet and it has helped her publicise her work and stuff. So Internet can be helpful in that way, FilmThreat magazine I guess ran out of business for a while, but now exists on Internet.[Film Threat Online] So Internet is now helping to continue publicize it, but it certainly isn't any final answer in any sense. Also, my view of what a film is, and the difference between making a film and making a video. A film is something that you make and then gets a premiere and gets written about. And then maybe it can go to video, but is has to become an event, some kind of a real thing. In America a lop of the independent filmmakers, or videomakers just made videos and sold the through FilmThreat or something like that. And you could take out a ad, and you could... there are a number of fanzines, and I'm sure you know them all, Shock and various other and you sent them, and Psycotronic, a copy and then they review it. And then you could sell a certain amount of copies. I think it's terrible, if that's the only way. Of course you need to get your money back, but then you're just selling a plastic box to people, you're not selling them the experience I think everything is, to me, everything is people in a movie theatre seeing the film, you know. As you can see a small crowd when they see a great film they like it, but the energy doesn't build. But a big crowd that sees a great film and they like it, the energy builds and the energy lasts, you get crowd reactions. Film should still be public! It's difficult though for anybody to really make a feature film, to afford it. It's a problem with people working in underground film so to speak because they are usually pretty poor any way.
The starving artist... Yeah, starving artist in a very expensive media basically. Why didn't they pick painting, or.. y'know paint a picture with their own blood or something or do a sculpture or something..
A way of expressing themselves.. I ask that rhetorically because that's the media I would work in too, but if you could grab them by the collar and say »Why did you pick film! Y'know you have to spend so and so money just to cater your movie and give lunch to the people that are in it!« So it's always been a battle, to be poverty stricken and working in film it's like a contradiction in terms, it's impossible in Europe I think. And that's why I've never had any desire to make a movie myself. It just didn't go in that direction.
Any persons that have inspired you continuing to give audiences these shows, and in what way have they inspired you? Like John Waters you said introduced you to these kinds of William Castle movies? John Waters was.. Female Trouble I saw in the early eighties, it was my big inspiration. And his early movies where my big inspiration from the seventies, Desperate Living, Female Trouble and to a lesser extent Pink Flamingos. He was always into the showbusiness aspect of it and there was a certain great thing about showing an audience a film, giving them this experience or bringing the film to them or telling them about it. I like that very much and I started doing that in mideightees at a bar in Boston. So I like the whole live element of it, basically kind of a circus. I'm not really in to the mainstream of film. I was a teacher for two years at the European Film Collage in Ebeltoft, and working, and there is this kind of a.. it embraces this whole wide thing called film culture, and I don't care for filmculture. I don't care for the Oscars, I've never watch them. I don't care for most film magazines and stuff like that, and most movies I don't care for, certainly most Hollywood movies I don't care for. So I couldn't say that I'm a great lover of film but I'm a lover of some films. I'm a worshipper of some films and I like presenting them also.
It's like your way of expressing yourself? It's a way of expressing yourself in a way. Of course you could make film but there are so many films forgotten that will never be seen. I have a 16...35 mm print of Kitten with a Whip. And I consider it like a holy crusade to have that film, get it shown, talk people into showing it. That was a film that Waters has talked about a lot. He showed a 16-mm print of it at his Christmas party in 1983, which I went to. That was back when he rented a 16mm projector, now he wouldn't even think of touching a film or a projector. He actually showed it. It has always been one of his favorite film and many people's favorite film but pretty unknown in Europe, so I think that, I don't wanna be typecast as a nostalgia - always looking into the past, but I do think there is so much great stuff in the past and my filmcollection stops around 1984. As I tell people the movie Savage Streets is the last, is the most recent movie I have, 1984, when American exploitation cinema was tamed after that, it stopped. So the period before that's y'know the beginning of sound, I'm not a big silent movie buff, but I do like some. The thirties, forties, fifties, sixtees, y'know to the mid-eighties, there are so many movies there are lost or completely obscure out there, so I've dedicated myself to, and also tried to make a living, in buying and circulating this.
Do you think you will develop some of your shows, like the gimmick show, to more total experiences, with skeletons in the theatres and such? It could go further, it could go as far as the sky with that show. This is kind of a with the skeleton in that show, y'know... Suggestions here and there, this was a process, that was a process and certainly I think it works pretty well but there is so much more gimmicks out there too. I would love to own them because I like seeing those shows too, myself. And also bring back the live element. Everybody talks about virtual reality and they have to go on their computer to find it, it's bullshit! It can be right there in the theatre. The actor jumps out of the movie screen, Dennis Ray Streckler had actors actually walk through the movie screen, or walk through something next to the movie screen. I think you've been shot if you ruined the movie screen, so in the level of the sixties and seventies American B-movies they always had this urge to make the movie come out, they used to have ghosts and spooks run through the aisle and things like that. Those people are inspirations. And people today are amazed by actually see a movieprojector, by actually see a gimmick or this or that, so low-tech is coming back. The actual experience of people being in a theatre and being amazed by something actually happening is just as strong as it always was. Even though they may spend the other eight hours of their day in front of a computer screen.
Kids today are to used to video, they don't think about the other people in the theatre who have paid a lot of money. They just sit and talk about personal problems and what time is it and not about the movie. Yeah, movie habits have changed and it's been a big complaint from a lot of people. Video has certainly, and they bring some of these scanners and shine it on the screen or this and that. And also people today has changed a little because they want complete comfort. And if you look back in the fifties the seats they had in movie theatres they where pretty uncomfortable, but people would watch three hours of film in those. Now people insist on having the most comfortable so, it's impossible to start a movie theatre today it's so expensive. You've to have good expensive seats and so forth. The way people go see movies has changed. Also many types of film culture has gone out of style. In America there was different levels, and they didn't really have it in Europe, they didn't really have exploitation. They had erotic film, they had pornography, they had big productions, their big productions in Scandinavia, y'know, costume dramas usually. And they had smaller films, but they didn't have the different levels that they had in America, they didn't really have what you call exploitation films.
There were a lot of comedy movies in Sweden from forties to the sixties.. Yeah, low budget comedy movies in Britain, they had the Carry on.., and they would be considered exploitation I guess. I don't think they are being made in any country anymore. I mean filmculture has been margined as becoming only one type of thing. And you look at a theatre, you look at your newspaper and the mall theatre is ten screens and they're all showing the same kind of movie. That's a tragedy. Before you could go, in America, to the drive-in or to the innercity theatre and see different types of movie. Somebody like Russ Meyer could not make movies today. He's a person who is a museum relic. He's battling revivals since 79, Beneath the Valley of the Ultravixens, basically there's no theatres to show his films anymore.
On video they sell a lot.. Right, they sell on video, and he travels to conventions and filmfestivals, but as David Freidman says it's just not the same because these people are old showbiz people, they're from showbusiness and you can't wait in a videoshop while people come in a rent your video, there is no satisfaction in that, but you can stand outside a theatre while you have a block of.. y'know a line of five blocks long with people waiting with money in their hand to give you. And that is what every showbusiness people lives for, the big hit, y'know, people dying to get into your movie, pay you money and.. So Russ Meyer sells videos and sells CDs and sells posters and T-shirts, but he's been reduced to basically a shell that travels around to conventions. Well he is very big in Germany, he's big anywhere.
I read in an article that you where going to do a show with Charles Gateway and Dances Sacred and Profane? We did that, Charles he toured with that movie Dances Sacred and Profane which I think is a great movie. Before all this modern primitives, before they turned it into a fashion.
Like Fakir Mustafa (An early explorer of bodyculture)? Right and his were like a sincere exploration of that, before it became a big fashion item in America. He toured with his girlfriend and came to Denmark and toured in Germany. It's always a little difficult to book a tour for somebody outside film festivals and something like that. He also had some of his photographs, we tried to get them in galleries. We also did it in June, late in June, and not being from Denmark I didn't know that the day I planned the show was also a Danish holiday when everybody goes out on the beach making bonfires and it's kind of a witch holiday or something. I don't know if you have the same thing here in Sweden, kind of a Viking sort of tradition. [Midsummer - editor] He was in Copenhagen on that day so it wasn't many people at the show. I've toured different people also, I've booked tours for them because I know these theatres. So I keep busy doing that too, I keep busy doing a lot of things that don't pay very much and it all adds up to basically survival. But I want to continue in the area where I'm interested in.
Hated, the GG Allin movie.. Yeah, right, Todd Phillips, we booked a tour for him too.
Did you meet GG Allin? I never met GG Allin I got a call from him once.
He seems like a maniac! Yeah, he knew of me. I was doing Pandemonium at that time so he liked that, he knew of me and I knew of him certainly at the time and talked to him very briefly on the phone once when I was at Tim Caldwells house, he called from prison at that time. I knew people that knew him quite well. And Merle Allin, his brother, actually did a tour in Denmark. Sometime later. So strange thing has come out of that. And Todd Phillips, the filmmaker, he toured with the film in 92, so I still have the print. People don't know whether to admire him or to pity him or to fear him. So it's plays differently with different people, and his personality. And he of course had this strange funeral after he died and then some people think that Todd Phillips was exploiting him. And I ask Todd Phillips, I did an interview and an article on Todd Phillips in Cinema of Transgression, if you have that book from Creation books?
I know about it I asked him »Do you think you're exploiting GG. Allin?« and he was like I was asking him if he was from Mars or anything »What?!, what!?«. It was impossible to exploit GG. Allin. GG. Allin exploited himself so much. And, I said, what about this funeral when you put a can of Budweiser in his hand while he was lying in the coffin and put your walkman on him, it's kind of a circus funeral, and he said that's exactly what he would have wanted. And he was probably right.
The show must go on. The show must go on. It was a show and GG. Allin was the embarrassment of American punk rock. You have somebody like Henry Rollin and everything is so profound and so epic, and then you have GG. Allin who's like the reversed psycho out there. Somebody who gets drunk and passes out and then somebody gives him a tattoo, whatever tattoo they feel like giving him y'know. He was an interesting character certainly.
Any moral dilemmas about the content of the shows or the films that you distribute like the Bodil Joensen films (Danish girl who had sex with some animals on her farm)? I don't really distribute that film! Army medicine in Vietnam, this friend of mine produced a show for me and I took all of my most extreme movies to Stockholm and I was actually checked on the train, cause I made a mistake with wearing my leatherjacket. So the people they were pulling of the ferry was me wearing a leatherjacket and the one guy who was black. They looked in my suitcase and said: »Are you going to Stockholm, and how long are you going to stay?« And I said: »Two days« and they said: »Then why are you having five suitcases?« And then they looked in them and saw these 16 mm filmprints, my most extreme films and irreplaceable and then they just closed them and said: »O.K.!« Customs authorities just don't care about filmprints anymore, there used to be a time when that was like taking dynamite into a country.
We've swapped a lot of videotapes and sometimes the customs had opened it. Yes, videotapes they will, but filmprints they won't!
I think it's good that they check.. so it isn't child pornography or something. I don't care. I watch films were people act (except for..) Mondomovies. Videotapes has put a whole different thing on it of course. They check for videos to see what they are, they watch'em or look at them, but it's funny because they don't do that with filmprints. They see a 16mm or a 35 mm and they put it back. I've been stopped in Germany, they where looking for drugs and I had films in my suitcase and they thought I was wasting their time.. »Why did we check this guy?« Some of those films are pretty extreme and are pretty hard for some people to take. Some people get offended by them and puts me in a position of saying should I not show these, should I only show half of them, should I tell people they shouldn't see them, and I think I shouldn't do that. But if I am showing the film, then I'm telling them that they should see it. One way or the other, I mean the position of telling them they should or shouldn't. If I'm doing the show I'm telling them to see it. So I can't censor them, I can't say, I'm more mature than you are, but I can say that... I mean people are curious about things, and they'll go and see things because they're curious and almost uniformly they will be revolted when they see it. So I can tell them, I can try give some sort of introduction of what there're going to see but its almost impossible with some of the films. I don't have that many and I don't usually rent them. but Bodil Joensen did several films with Ole Ege, a Danish pornographer, played in Britain and was a big hit. So it's a moral dilemma a little bit in that I don't wanna be someone who's censoring it, I Mean I think that everything should be seen, everything should be available and be seen, I think that many people believe that. I pretty much appear with it myself so there are a lot of things I don't like seeing for myself. These films I don't enjoy watching, but I like to posses the filmprint. Because of, something like Army Medicine in Vietnam I feel I liberated it from the army, taken it out from it's original context being shown to medical students, it's a medical film but if you take it and show it to the general public, it's an anti-war film. And this friend in Germany his medical corps saw it and turned everyone to rabid antiwar people, rabid pacifists after seeing that, y'know it makes everyone anti-war, and they showed it to us in the service. So when you take it out of its original context, you liberated it from its original context so, but as far as pornography and that, I have a copy of Deep Throat, it's very early seventies style.
It's a cult film in every sense. Yes, it's a cultfilm in every sense.
It made hardcore movies mainstream and mondomovies changed there. Yes, everything changed after that movie came out and made so much money. It was shown so widely. If you look, 1972 was an amazing year, Pink Flamingos came out and it had that immense effect and it's historical, a legendary film and people should see it and judge for themselves. Yeah, I would never be in a position where I would have to pass my moral judgement onto other people. I don't have any snuff films, and I think there are no snuff films. Nicholas Cage has made this film (Eight millimeter), I saw him on the TV the other day and he was saying: »I'm not saying there are and I'm not saying there aren't any«. And that's because every journalist is coming up to him asking »are there snuff films?«. John Waters was answering the same question twenty years ago. I mean journalists and writers as he says in his own book, some writers would just wanna talk to him and ask him about snuff films and he would tell them »they don't exist, it's a myth«. Nobody can say whether there hasn't ever been one made, but there are fakers.
No successful commercial movies are snuff films but.. Yes, and nothing you've seen on video that have been duped twenty times and everybody is going: aaahhh.
Because of the camera shaking and out of focus and.. Yes, so how many people has wasted so many hours looking into these things and you just don't know if there are human figures in there! You don't even know if it's an animal or a human being. I mean, what's happening, to waste hours. That was when I turned against video because I knew these peoples who was into extreme videos. This one guy in Holland, after wasting several hours watching these things with him, you couldn't tell what was happening »is this a snuff film? Is that a woman being killed?«. This is really a waste of time!
Then there are all these famous movies being called snuff movies or being accused of being snuffmovies, like Cannibal Holocaust, which is one of the best films I've ever seen. But it works because it's lowbudget, and it seems like it must be real.
He really knows how to use the cameras. He's a genius! Or the infamous Guinea Pigs films from Japan..whats it called the one with the samurai who cuts up a girl on a table.. Flowers of Flesh and Blood. Why would he bother to put a sheet over her groin? And also Snuff of course, which was mentioned quite a bit..
It was a torture to see. You've seen it? But it's at the end it gets interesting? Not even there.
Hahahahahaha, So it was a phenomenon around the movie. Some movies are more interesting for the stories that they cause y'know that swirl around them. But the interesting thing about snuff is that even though none has ever proven that there are snuff movies. My parents know what a snuffmove is! Everyone knows what a snuff film are..A film where someone gets killed for real and that people like us are looking at.
Exactly, it's the myth that has gone out of control, there is also some sexual element or bondage or sexual degradation and the killing is the final act. And of course there are videos of people dying and stuff but a real snuffmovie..
The definition of a snuffmovie is a commercial production with actors that are killed. Of course there are some psychos that have filmed their murders and had it shown. Right, this guy Charles Ng.
Charlie Ng. I mean supposedly that was real snuffmovies being made on video but, yeah okay, maybe they exist but I don't wanna take the question any further. I don't wanna see those movies, I don't ever wanna see those movies. I think everything should be seen, but I draw the line somewhere with just depraved sadism and murder. If I knew there was a tape there that had that on it, of course I'm curious as anyone else. The snuffmovies became to be a phenomenon beyond. And like I said, twenty years ago John Waters was answering this kind of questions and now Nicholas Cage is. So they have entered some very interesting territory and everything I've hear about this movie its way over the top. I'll go see it! I think that snuff movies is interesting as a sociological phenomenon. Every middle-class person or religious persons want them to exist to prove that the devil is there...
It has a purpose. It's a great myth.
But snuff movies, the definition is somewhat blurred. The Faces of Death, Death Scenes and Traces of Death movies they are in some way snuffmovies, if you want them to be. Going back, a lot of entertainment show people die, it has always been taboo, it is the most private moment in a persons life and you're invading it. This morbid desire of people, voyeristic, people are voyeurs by nature and that's what entertainment are about basically. So death has figured, seeing a live death, yeah... But the snuffmovie has it's classical defined as basically as some room with a guy with a 8 mm camera, always with a 8 mm camera, think you better bring back the eight mm format they could have called it Super 8, why didn't they call it Super 8?
Its actually called Super 8 in Sweden. Super 8, maybe actually that's the title.
Compared to write articles and books is it a financial suicide to do these shows? To do these filmshows? No, I like to travel around and do these shows, and I'm happy to do it and I'm honored to be invited to do these shows, I wouldn't just become a writer.
It's not about the money, it's more of a mission? It's more of a mission, but some of the shows make it worthwhile financially to travel around. And this hotel that I'm staying at here is beautiful, it's nice to get out of my small project, I live in a project. And this friend of mine that I helped tour around, he's in America now and he's completely broke, there is no way of making money doing these types of things. And when he comes over next month and make four thousand dollars or something doing tours throughout Norway, doing a show in Malmoe and Germany, south of France. So he's doing shows like night and day so he gets hotel and he's like a real Rizzlo Ratso (Dustin Hoffman in Midnight Cowboy) character because he gets checked into some nice hotel, like the one I'm staying at, and he's amazed you get served breakfast for free. You never get that in American hotels, you don't get free breakfast, no, he gets down twice! He gets up early and goes down and eats and goes back and sleeps for another hour and then he gets up and eats again. To anybody in America who has worked at the bottom of this thing, Europe is, you can be treated quite well. Not getting 50 percent of the door, type of thing y'know, You travel all the way from Albuquerque to San Francisco and you get 50 percent which y'know can be twenty bucks and so. We don't complain.
You have an advantage being an American, American culture has infiltrated us so much here.. I tell people I'm living in Denmark but I am not a Dane, I'm an American. So it is a.. I can talk English and I can talk about certain things and I connect with the audience..So I'm happy with that situation. Yeah, you've right, American culture, at least on some levels maybe not so much the B-movie, well the B-movies also with video and..
It's difficult with American culture, because you've all these big budget films like Godzilla and Independence day, I like those movies, on the big screen. But I think there should be more like these shows, the other sort of films that made these new ones, the essence of these movies. If you've seen War of the Worlds it's Independence Day. I don't wanna be typecast as nostalgia, I go see Independence Day and the Jurassic Parks. I like to go into a theatre and watch a giant screen, but most of the films leave me cold, most of the Hollywood blockbusters leave me cold, Independence day I wasn't too crazy about..but I think there are a lot of filmculture that people don't know about, and people also think they know America by watching movies. I was talking to a friend of mine who lives in Holland and he said: »I'm not going to America I'm just going to sit in my armchair and watch the movies and go that way.« I told him: »You've seen a myth of America, this is a myth and that's has nothing to do with the reality.« And somebody told me I would never wanna live in California because there are so many natural disasters, earthquakes and I said: »Come on, California is a gigantic state. You have much better chance of dying of boredom or something.« But that's the same with Europe, I mean Europe is a mythical place to an American. The karma level is incredible. I was reading a lot about the 13th century about the plague when I first came to Europe in '87 or so. Everywhere I went I asked where the plaugue victims where buried, or whatever.
The interview was abruptly stopped here and Jack Stevenson and I walked into the cinema. The subject for this evening was the trailershow he had brought with him called »The attack of the gigant flying Kung-Fu monster trailer show«, and after he had explained to the audience what they where about to see, Mr. Stevenson sat down and looked at the show with us. During the show I caught a glance of Mr. Stevenson and something he said during the interview rang in my ears I couldn't say that I'm a great lover of film but I'm a lover of some films. I'm a worshipper of some films and I like presenting them also«. He wasn't bullshitting, this man loves what he's doing and will continue doing so as long as we attend his shows.

