Titel: Lamberto Bava - Like Father Like Son
Publicerad i Violent Vision nummer 2, 1994

It has been said before, but I'll say it again. Italy produces some of the best horror flicks in the world. And, sadly enough, also some of the worst. Lamberto Bava, now 49 years old, has done both. Demons and Macabro make us nostalgic while films like Graveyard Disturbance and The Ogre makes us wanna puke. Twice.


Certain directors are hard to get a grip on. The likes of Joe D'Amato, Umberto Lenzi and Lamberto Bava seem to have problems while making a film. Sometimes the film turns out as a minor masterpiece, but most of the time you almost feel embarrassed to look at them. These films are lacking in every possible detail. The sometimes great murder scenes are clumsily made, the actors make fools of themselves and the film screams after a script. This is a strange phenomenon and it is hard to explain. But in the case of Lamberto, it seems like he must have a strong guiding hand. But he has the craftsmanship to make a beautiful movie and knows how to handle the art of screen violence, that's for sure.

Like many of his directing colleagues Lamberto started his career as a second unit director. A good way to learn the noble art of direction. The first projects were Planet of the Vampires and Lisa and the Devil, both together with his father and mentor Mario.

HOLIDAYS ITALIAN WAY
It was in 1976 that he did the second unit job on Ruggero Deodato's family film Ultimo Mondo Cannibale, which was the general rehearsal for Cannibal Holocaust and is more a adventure film in the old tradition. Played for real Ultimo Mondo Cannibale remains as one of the finest contributions to the cannibal genre. According to Lamberto himself, he wasn't involved at all in Cannibal Holocaust. So the stories around that one can't be true then. But according to Deodato, Lamberto was involved and there is an amusing tale about his involvement. When the "let's snuff the turtle"-scene was being filmed the story has it that Lamberto went into the jungle and puked up his lunch and lungs. It may not be true, but why ruin a good story with facts? Continuing as a second unit director he worked with his father one more time, on Venus of Ille, and did his last second unit work on Dario Argento's wonderful nightmare story Inferno.

Now it was time for Lamberto to direct a film on his own.

IT'S A STIFF, BERYCKED OF LIFE IT RESTS IN PEACE!
An idea by Pupi (Zeder) Avati was in need for a script and a director. Lamberto was called in and was put on the job, Macabro was on its way. The story goes something like this: Jane (Bernice Stegers) is driving along a street with her lover after an alarming phone call from her daughter. They get involved in a car accident and her lover (Stanko Molnar) tragically loses his head and Jane loses a screw after the accident and moves into her secret love-nest, located in a house owned by a blind guy (Roberto Posse). Everything seems to be fine, but is it? Late in the evenings she goes to the fridge (hence the a.k.a title "Frozen Terror") and then jumps into bed. But not alone, with her lover's frozen head beside her, she begins to masturbate! But good things go bad. Her husband wants her back again and starts to get on her nerves. The blind guy on the first floor wants to know her better and keeps inviting her for romantic, candle lit dinners. But all that she wants is to lie in bed with her lover (or what's left of him). Macabro might not be a masterpiece, but a twisted story like this can't be all that bad. Lamberto has a certain touch for beautiful camera moves. And the ending must be seen to be believed. Highly recommended for all you necrophiliacs out there.

DEMONS, INSTRUMENTS OF EVIL!
In 1985 came Lamberto's first worldwide hit, the excellent horror party Demons. It was in fact given to Lamberto as a favor from childhood pal Dario Argento. The time was right to do a MTV kind of splatter feast. Sure, Fulci's slowpaced zombies had gained a certain amount of respect all around this flat world, but why not do it faster? A lot faster. Produced by Dario Argento and with competent actors like Urbano Barberini, Natasha Hovey, Michele Soavi and Bobby Rodhes, there were only one thing missing - some grand special effects. Bearded guy Sergio Stivaletti was called in and voila! A success already on paper. The team started shooting in September 1984 in Berlin (exteriors) and Rome (interiors). The film made a really deep impression on me the first time I saw it and I know I wasn't alone with that feeling, right!

In Berlin a strange guy (Michele Soavi) runs around giving away tickets to a test screening of a new splatter film. Nice chick Natasha Hovey accepts the invitation. (Wouldn't you?) In the reception of the cinema lovely Nicoletta Elmi collects tickets. If you look closely you may remember her as the sadistic little kid in Argento's Deep Red and as one of the murderous kids in the ending of Mario Bava's Twitch of the Death Nerve. Anyway, it turns out to be a real bad choice for the guests (but not for us). Shortly after the film has started rolling, a negro babe turns into a demon, "an instrument of evil" (gotta love that line)! From here on it's just a big splatter party. Heads roll and grand battle scenes between demons and moviegoers pass before our glistening eyes. The demons are nothing more than zombies, but in a different package. And it has a special thought. Instead of a lot of red stuff, the demons have a lot of green (!) stuff, just to flirt with the censors around the world. And it succeeded. The English version isn't so much cut (of course some of the fun mutilation is gone, but far from all). Memorable scenes involves Dario's cute daughter Fiore drenched in vomit, and Barberini rides a motorcycle, armed with a samurai sword, chopping demons into chop suey. All this to loud heavy metal music. Bad assed Bobby (Endgame) Rodhes also gives a memorable performance as a self-appointed boss over the pack of moviegoers.

JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO WATCH TV!
In the year of our lord, 1987, the thing you didn't want to see appeared, Demons 2. Some never learn! Apparently Lamberto really wanted to do a sequel, but ran out of fresh ideas. Okey, I can admit that it's good entertainment for one hour and a half but that's as far as I go. Sally (Virginia Bryant, the scissors girl in Opera) celebrates her sixteenth birthday, but has no idea how the party will turn out. The charming demons have in some mysterious way installed themselves in the buildings television sets (talk about Violent Vision). Anyway, Sally is the first one to be transformed into a demon and quickly starts to produce new ones. From here on it's routine stuff. People run, scream, turn ugly and get lost. Lamberto did one good thing though, in casting Nancy Brilli (from Deodato's funny splatterfeast Body Count). This lovely girl plays a pregnant housewife who is left alone in her apartment and has to fight the demons all by herself. Or one demon to be exact. And here Lamberto's first mistake comes, an ugly little demon puppet straight out of the Muppet Show. Lam', you can't fool me or anyone else with a cheap trick like that. Mistake number two: Bobby Rodhes. He was wild and funny in the first film, but was he so fucking fun that he had to do it again? There must be other actors in Italy that could do that role. By the way, Karl Zinny, who played one of the punks in the first Demons, is a porter in this one. Keep your eyes peeled and you might see Lamberto himself in a talking role at the carneval around the middle of the film.

Demons 2 is okey if you are in a forgiving mood and really must see it. But forget about that so called third part. In England some little bastard has given out Demons 3 - The Ogre. This is what you can call a big fucking lie! In fact, it is Lamberto's television film The Ogre and it stinks. But let's call it "Demons 3" anyway. Paulo Malco (of House by the Cemetery fame) plays the lead role. Or is it the same role as in House by the Cemetery? I don't know. He has a wife (Virginia Bryant), a kid and moves into a house. Wait a minute, it IS the same role. Anyway, in the house strange things happens, things you've seen before. The lovely scene his father and Dario did so beautiful in Inferno, the underwater scene. Lamberto thought he could do it better. But he couldn't. In the end "the ogre" appears for about two seconds and really dies when the car runs over it. If you hate somebody, give Demons 3 to him/her.

Lamberto did write a script called The Church, though which was planned as Demons 3. But due to him not being bankable enough as director the job was given to Michele Soavi. I don't want to argue with a master like Dario, but when he says that The Church never was meant as Demons 3, I say he's talking through his ass. Other films are said to be called Demons 3, like Umberto Lenzi's Demoni 3 (aka Black Demons, 1991), but this has yet to be scientifically proven.

BLACK GLOVES AND BIG KNIVES
What the Italians have done the best in the horror genre is, without a doubt, the Giallos. Strange killers with a knife and black gloves who prefers to kill young women. At the top is Dario Argento, but there are a few films that have come close, real close. A Blade in the Dark (see VV#1) is one of Lam's contributions, but I prefer You'll Die at Midnight (go on, hate me), which I think is better done and has a funnier plot, or as funny as a Giallo can be. Here the problem lies and even Dario has problems with it, i.e bring some new life into the genre. They are stuck on not making a original movie, but a damn good-looking one, or just some of that ol' red stuff all over the wall type of films. And that's a shame. There is always a way of putting new angels to movies, but Lamberto and his fellow filmmakers haven't thought this out yet. And Lamberto is surely not a guy that thinks a lot for himself. 

Back to the subject, You'll Die at Midnight is one of the better non-Argento giallos. Not so very much blood but slick camera moves and some twists here and there. Made for television but released on video anyway. The film starts with a shower murder (very original, huh) and continues to do things by the book. But it's entertaining and fun to watch. In this one an ice-pick killer is on the loose (not Sharon Stone) and creates a bit of mayhem. Our heroine believes that a killer that died several years before has come back. Paulo Malco tries to quit smoking and everyone is a suspect. The murders aren't so original, but when the camera is placed from a vagina point of view and the killer stares into it and then comes forth with a electric hand mixer, it's hard not to clap your hands. Nasty stuff indeed. And that I like.

A Blade in the Dark is not as entertaining though. The tale is about a composer (Andrea Occhipinti) who moves into a house to compose some music, but ends up with corpses in every closet. A fairly amusing film and the only scenes in the film that are inspired in some way, are the murders. Though it does have good performances from the actors involved, especially by Michele Soavi.

Photos of Joy is also a Giallo. It deals with a woman (sex star Serena Grandi) who takes over a mens magazine. One by one of the models are wiped out and in the cast we can see the big busty disco singer Sabrina in a small role. Genre stars David Brandon and Daria Nicolodi also show their pretty faces. Better than you could think and it's fun to see George Eastman in a "good guy" role. Nice girls and nice settings just for you.

EVEN A RIP-OFF MAY PAY OFF
After the success of First Blood it was only a matter of time before the Italian rip-offs began hitting the cinemas (strange that they are so depending upon American, or in certain cases Australian, box-office hits). One of the best First Blood rip-offs, besides Fabrizio De Angelis' Thunder Warrior, was Lamberto's Blastfighter. Big hunk George Eastman plays the bad boy and Michael Sopkiw plays our Rambo type of guy who moves back to a little redneck town after some years of absence. George is an old friend but times has changed. What makes Blastfighter a bit better than you could expect is the fact that it doesn't try to copy First Blood too much. It has its own conflicts and storyline even if it's a "Don't push me or I'll kill you all" kind of film. Michele Soavi turns up in this one too, playing a nerd.

One strange rip off is Changeling II - The Revenge. What this one has to do with Peter Medak's spooky first film is a mystery. So it may just be a title rip-off. It is on the other hand a rip-off of his father's Shock. It starts with the burial of Giola Scolas husband, brutally slayed by her and her lover played by David Brandon. Things go on fine for six years then shit starts to happen. A mysterious stranger, Urbano Barberini, shows up and finally he just happens to be, surprise, surprise, the incarnation of the dead husband. I can't figure this film out. The way I get it is that he has returned just to tell his wife to keep their wedding ring on? There was another thing that bothers me like hell. In the opening credits the snotty little kid is credited as "and the little...". Do they write "The over-acting Wings Hauser", or "The fat Paul L. Smith", no they don't. Call me a nitpicker, but this bothers me. Really! On the positive side, David Brandon has at this time proven that he might be the new king of Italo horror after David Warbeck. Keep up the good work! 

Speaking of rip-offs, another movie that got some followers was Jaws (see review of Rene Cardona Jr's Tintorera). Luigi Cozzi made a script for Lamberto and the budget on Monster Shark was not much if you want to believe Luigi himself ("we only have a boat and 100 lire"). Speaking of rip-offs, Lamberto sometimes does films under the name John Old Jr, which is a rip-off of his father's pseudonym John Old. If you want to know!

BOTTOM OF THE BARREL
Here's the really bad stuff in Lamberto's production; Graveyard Disturbance. What the hell is going on here? Made for TV and children I hope! Never before have I seen so many nice settings being put in such a pathetic plot. A bunch of teens (I fucking hate them) drives around in an ugly van and do some shoplifting (if you must see this one, note that the shop owner is played by Lamberto). Anyway they end up in a castle ruin and find a strange tavern. Inside strange and weird looking fellows are sitting. After some silly dialogue one of the teens gets into a bet with the owner (Karl Zinny). If he can survive one night in the basement, he gets all the gold and glitter that lie in a big bowl. In the basement there are a lot of catacombs which look kind of cool, but this is not a good film to get the time going with. Ugly and silly monsters appear in every corner, the teens argue a lot and Lamberto makes fun out of zombies in a way which can't be forgiven. The zombies are even sillier than the ones in Return of the Living Dead Part II. So don't say I didn't warn you!

Repeat: is it a remake? is it a remake?
In 1989 Lamberto went and did a stupid thing. Black Sunday part II. Why? Problems paying the rent? Mario's film was a classic gothic story but this one involves teenagers (please, help me), skiing and a frozen body (maybe he should have called it Frozen Terror II). Does it sound like it has anything to do with part one? You tell me. The teens stumble over the body and it happens to be an old, wicked witch. Of course she wakes up and is mean to the youngsters (but not as mean as I would have been) and you've just wasted 90 minutes of your precious life. Next please.

If he don't like the guy...
While watching Lamberto's films it's hard to miss a very familiar name, namely Dardano Sacchetti. You recognize the name from various films of 'ol man Lucio Fulci, like Zombi 2, House By the Cemetery, New York Ripper. With Lamberto he has made scripts for about ten films. Strangely enough he doesn't like Lamberto's films but keeps doing 'em with him. Can it be money that draws him into collaboration? As with the "Stan & Laurel" of Italian thrash cinema (Bruno Mattei and Claudio Fragasso) they may not come up with the best ideas on the face of the earth, but at least they do come up with new films year after year.

Finally I must say that if you think that sometimes I'm being hard on the guy, it's because both you and I know that he can make good pictures if he want to. But it's like he is more into quantity than quality sometimes. Hopefully one day he will learn his lesson. Nowadays it seems like Lamberto mainly works for television, and it can be that this media suits him better than cinema releases. Latest news is though a shot on the classic "The Golem" with Dario Argento producing. But all in all, Lamberto has together with his colleagues made Italy one of the best horror producing countries in the world. So keep on watching the films, you might hate some of them but it can also be the beginning of a beautiful friendship.

[FILMOGRAPHY: (essential work)]

As second unit director:
1965 Planet of the vampires
1972 Lisa and the Devil
1976 Ultimo Mondo Cannibale
1979 Cannibal Holocaust
1980 Inferno
1982 Tenebrae

Feature films:
1978 Le Vente D'Ille aka Venus of Ille (co-dir)
1980 Macabro aka Macabre aka Frozen Terror
1983 La Casa con Scala nel Buio aka A Blade in the Dark aka The House of the Dark Staircase*
1983 Blastfighter aka Forced Vengeance
1984 Monster Shark aka Red Oceans aka Devil Fish aka Devouring waves*
1985 Demoni aka Demons*
1985 Moriai Mezzanotte aka You'll die at Midnight aka Midnight Killer*
1986 Demoni 2 aka Demons 2*
1987 Fa Sempre, Fino Alla Morte aka Until Death aka Changeling 2: The Revenge*
1988 Le Photo di Gioia aka Photos of Joy aka Delirium
1989 Il Gioco*
1989 La Maschera del Demonio'90 aka Black Sunday 2
1992 Body Puzzle

TV-productions:
1987 Dinner with a Vampire*
1987 Una Notte nel Cimitero aka Graveyard Disturbance*
1987 Turno Di Notte
1988 La Casa dell'Orco aka The Ogre aka Demons 3
1988 A Cena con Il Vampiro *
1989 Il Maestro dell Terrore
199? Vomo che non Voleva Morie

* script by/with Dardano Saccheti

BY CHRISTER PERSSON
