Titel: Mario Bava - Godfather of Giallo. Publicerad i Violent Vision nummer 1, 1994

INTRO:
Discussing filmmakers in Italy it's very hard not to mention Mario Bava when speaking about Dario Argento and Lucio Fulci. Why? It's a fact that the man worked with movies his whole life and that he started the »stalk and slash« trend ten years before the stupid Americans thought about it. Well, here is a short history about the man and the myth.

ARTIKEL:
31th of July 1914 is an historical date. Not only did World War I break out, but Eugenio Bava became father to a little son, Mario. Mario's father was one of the pioneers in the movieindustry in Italy and was both photographer and special effectmaker. While Eugenio did most of his work at home, it's quite natural that Mario picked up some of the things his father was doing and got interested in filmmaking early. 

As a teenager Mario started to work as an assistant to his father and by the time he was 24 he started to get work of his own. The year was 1938 and Mario was billed as First director of photography on La Avventura di Annabella. Mario got a good reputation and in the years that followed he worked for famous directors such as Jaques Tourneur and Roberto Rossellini. 

When the horror-film I, Vampiri (1956) was made the director Riccardo Freda got himself in some trouble and Mario got a shot at the directors role for two days. Mario liked it and wanted to direct more movies but it would take a couple of years before he got the opportunity to do that. For many years Mario had read the Russian tale The Vij, written by Nicolai Gogol, to his children as a bedtime story and in 1960 he got the mission to transfer it to the silver screen, not only as a photographer but also as director. 

This is the tale about the evil witch Asa who is executed with her lover in the 17th century and they are reincarnated two centuries later to take revenge on her family. The beginning of the film-adaption is excellent with Asa and her lover executed with »the demons mask«, which has huge nails on the inside and is hammered on their faces. Quite gruesome I can tell you. The rest of Black Sunday is slow and a little boring, but it has beautiful sets and lightning. Filmed mainly in studio it really captures a gothic sense and hits the viewer with full power. 

In the female lead, as evil Asa and the timid princess Katia, Mario wanted actress Barbara Steele. Barbara is very good in the role and she went from horrormovie to horrormovie and got real tired of this after a few years and started to insult us horrorfans, calling us »necrophiliacs!« But that's forgotten by this time. The American distributors Hallmark recorded a completely new soundtrack, re-edited the film and inserted new scenes directed by Mario! Blasphemy!

After Black Sunday Mario made Hercules at the centre of the World (1961) which was one of those muscle epics. Ol' nackbiter Christopher Lee played Hell's agent Lico and the film also included monsters and ghouls. If you want to know I can tell that Franco (Africa Addio) Prosperi was one of the co-writers. Cameron »I'll play anything for money« Mitchell took a trip to Italy to appear in Eric, The Conqueror (1961), a viking pic. The fact that Mario only could say »Son-of-a-bitch« in english doesn't seem to have scared actors to go to Italy and appear in Mario's films and in 1962 the luck came to John Saxon. It was an early giallo with the name The Evil Eye. 

The following year Mario made Black Sabbath, which was three different stories connected with the appearance of Boris Karloff. Years before Ridley Scott made his Alien there was this little Bava film called Planet of the Vampires (1966) about a ship which lands on a desolate planet only to find skeletons of an extinguist alien-race and then they're one by one wiped out by a strange uninvited guest. But instead of a H.R. Giger designed monster, Mario used something more common; vampires. The surface of the planet was made possible with the help of two rocks that also was used in some Hercules flicks. And Planet of the Vampires is by some called Italy's best contribution to the science fiction-genre. That clearly marks that you don't need fortyfive millions to make a good film if you know what you are doing. Mario's son Lamberto started to work with his father on this one but we will come back to Lamberto in the next issue.

As already mentioned Mario also made F/X and the TV-production The Oddey shows Mario's skills with special effects. Comedies was also one thing this man made, like Dr Goldfoot and the Girl Bombs (1966) and Four times that Night (1968). At the end of the sixties films had became more and more violent and special effects started to look real good (like in Sam Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch) and Mario started to make more violent films. But when he made An Hatchet for a Honeymoon (1969) he wasn't allowed to splat blood over the stair he was filming the films' major murder in, ruff luck and the film clearly lacks blood and good taste in clothes. Stephen Forsyth plays a crazy fashion guy, who has a bad habit of killing girls on their wedding nights and can't hold his dirty hands off his wife either. She is killed but comes back from the grave and starts to show herself and slowly drives him into insanity. 

1970 was a bad year for Mario when he had to make Five dolls for an August Moon, a film he hated very much. Then all hell breaks loose. The wonderful year 1971 came and Mario did one of the most violent movies ever, Twitch of the Death Nerve. Once again Mario made something way before the american filmindustry. This is pre-Friday the 13th and includes some things that gives you serious deja-vu-feelings, like machetas in the face, the couple that fucks and dies by getting a spear through them and graphic beheadings. Bava also showes us that Italian youngsters are just as stupid as the americans and just as annoying. I must say that here is a perfect example of »the masked mysterious stranger with gloves and hat«, that Dario Argento also does so well. The fact that Bava did it first is something that Argento don't want to hear anything about since he doesn't have any influences from Bava. Who is kidding who here? 

Nevertheless Twitch of the Death Nerve is a real treat for us gore-hounds. It starts to kick some ass already in the beginning with a very stylish murder of a woman in a wheelchair. The special effects in this one is so fucking great! The poor guy who get's the machete in the face is so realistic it's even hard to tell the cuts when you look at it in slow-motion. Tom Savini must have seen this and got himself some real inspiration for the similar scene in Dawn of the Dead. Joe (Piranha) Dante thinks that this film really pushed the boundaries for violence on the screen. Why waste any more space for this film here when I know that you unfortunaly souls who haven't seen it don't want to read any more details. Highly recommended you know.

Lisa and the Devil the following year isn't as funny though, after the mayhem in Twitch of the Death Nerve Bava wanted to make a poetic film about death. Filmed and completed Bava had to take it back and insert scenes of Elke Sommer possessed by the devil, just to cash in on William Friedking's The Exorcist. Mario did this under the pseudonym Mikey Lion, and this clearly messes up the film. If someone out there has the original version, I want to see that instead (hint, hint). The film wasn't helped much by the appearance of ugly Telly Savalas who's running around with a lollypop in his mouth. You can wonder if he thought he still was Kojak or if Mario thought it looked good? Anyway the »exorcist« scenes includes vomiting on the priest and masturbation. If I was the devil I would do more things than lying in a bed puking on people, jerking off all of the time and use harsh language! But what do I know? 

Elke Sommer also appeared in Baron Blood (1972), a return to the gothic horror Mario does so well and he didn't make more than one movie in 1974, Wild Dogs and in 1977 his last full-length film, Shock came. This is a supernatural thriller which I found rather confusing but it has good performances by Daria Nicolodi, John Steiner and Ivan »the terrible« Rassimov. Some good optical effects and slick camera work also saved the film. Lamberto and Mario did a TV-production in 1978, Venus of Ille and in 1980 Mario Bava did his last work on Dario Argento's nightmare Inferno. Mario helped stage and light the wonderful underwater sequence where the corpse comes floating up and attacks Irene Miracle.

The man that gave his whole life to the movies and who could easily light a set so the actors looked much more beautiful than they really was. The man that shot big fighting scenes with the help of mirrors, so the audience thought there was hundreds of people when there wasn't and the man that invented the »Giallo«-genre, didn't get any more chances to make a movie by his own again. Mario Bava left this world in a heartattack 24/4 - 1980 but he has left a deep impression on many of the filmmakers today. Even non-genre directors like Pedro Almodovar, who in his Matador showes clips from Blood and Black Lace (1964) and Quentin Tarantino, the man that did the excellent Reservoir Dogs, has mentioned Mario as one of their influences. 

Bava is dead, long live Bava.

FILMOGRAPHY:
1938 La Avventura di Annabella (photo)
1957 Hercules (second unit director)
1958 Hercules Unchained (2 unit dir.)
1956 I, Vampiri (photo. & ass. dir.)
1959 The Gigant of Marathon (2 unit dir.)
1959 Caltiki, The Immortal Monster (F/X and co-director)
1960 La Maschera del Demonio aka Black Sunday aka The Demon’s Mask aka Revenge of the Vampire aka The House of Fear
1960 Seddok-l'Erde di Santana prod. aka Atom age Vampire
1961 Ercole al Centro della Terra aka Hercules at the Centre of the Earth aka Hercules in the Centre of the Earth aka Hercules in the Haunted World aka Hercules vs the Vampires vs Hercules
1961 The wonders of Alladin (co-dir.)
1961 Erik, the Conqueror
1961 La Ragazza che Sappera Trappo aka Evil Eye
1963 La Frusta e il Corpo aka Incubo aka The Whip and the Body aka The Body and the whip aka Night is the Phantom aka The Way and the Body aka Son of Satan
1963 I trevolte della Paura aka Black Sabbath aka The Three Faces of Fear aka Black Christmas aka The Three Faces of Terror
1964 Sei Donne per l'Assassino aka Blutige seide aka Fashion House of Death aka Six Woman for the Murder
1964 La Strada per Fort Alamo aka The Road to Fort Alamo
1965 Terrore nello Spazio aka Terror en el Espacio aka Planet of Blood aka Demon Planet aka The Haunted Planet aka Planet of Terror aka Planet of Space aka The Outlawed Planet aka Planet of the Damned aka Planet of the Vampires
1966 Operazione Paura aka Curse of the Dead aka Kill Baby, Kill aka Curse of the Living Dead aka Operation Fear
1966 Dr Goldfoot and the Girlbombs
1966 Raffica di Coltelli aka Knives of the Avanger
1968 Danger: Diabolik
1968 The Oddessy (F/X)
1968 Nude...suk Muore aka Cry Nightmare aka The young, The Evil and The Savage
1968 Quante Volte... Quella notte aka Four Times That Night
1969 Ray Colt and Winchester Jack aka Four Times That Night
1969 Una Hacha para la Luna de Miel aka Il Rosso segno della Follia aka Blood Brides aka A Hatchet for the Honeymoon aka The Red Sign of
1970 Cinque Bambole per la Luna d'Agosto aka Five Dolls for an August Moon
1971 Ecologia del Delitto aka Antefatto aka Reallone a Catena aka The Ecology of a Crime aka Before the Fact aka Twitch of the Death Nerve aka Bay of Blood aka Carnage aka Bloodbath at Bay of Blood
1972 Lisa e il Diavolo aka Il Diavolo e i Morti aka El Diablo aka Lleva a Los Muertos aka La casa dell' Escorcismo aka Lisa and the Devil aka The Devil and the Dead aka The House of Exorcism aka Lisa e il Diavolo
1972 Gli Orrori del Castello di Norimberga aka Baron Blood aka Chamber of Tortures aka The Baron Blood aka The Thirst of Baron Blood aka The Torture Chamber of Baron Blood
1974 Cani Arrabbiati aka Wild Dogs
1974 Moses (F/X)
1977 Shock (Transfer Suspence Hypnos) aka All 33 di Via Orplogio Fa Sempre Freddo aka Beyond the Door II aka Suspence
1977 Baby Kong
1978 La Ventre d'ille aka Venus of ille Tv-production with Lamberto Bava
1980 Inferno (F/X)

BY CHRISTER PERSSON
