Titel: Rest in PIECES - The Missing Stars of Horror
Publicerad i Violent Vision 1, 1994

INTRO:
Through time there has been famous and respected persons in the moviebusiness, like Alfred Hitchcock, Woody Allen and Marlon Brando. Persons every less famous have been compared with. But on the other hand there are the »sleepers«, who doesn't seem to come anywhere. They can make one or two good movies just to disappear afterwards. The question is; where did they go? Did they die? Did they change their sex? Did they catch a cold? Christer wanna know!

One of the missing directors is Jorge Grau who started as an assistant to Michelangelo Antonioni (Blow up, La Notte). In 1972 Jorge made Legend of Blood Castle (aka Female Butcher) a film about the nice and gentle Countess Bathory. In 1974 he followed up with one of the best zombieflicks this side of the grave, The Living Dead at Manchester Morgue. La Strastienda followed the same year and Carta de Amore de una Monja in 1978. Then all traces after this genious are wiped out. That’s a real shame because he had the potential to be a major threat to faves like Ruggero Deodato, Lucio Fulci and Dario Argento. 

Another one who’s missing is Andrea Bianchi (any connections with actress Daniela Bianchi?), what I know the only female zombie director, in a male dominated branch. Andrea made the infamous Burial Ground (1980). This is a film Chas. Balun likes a lot, but I think it’s a real drag. It has a lot of our beloved zombies but it’s slowpaced and stupid. Andrea also made Confessions of a Frustrated Wife (1976), a drama about a frustrated woman who begins an affair with her stepson. Sounds interesting? Nah, didn’t think so. But at least she made a zombie film and that’s honorable enough. When actors disappear it’s even more painful and it hurts the most when actresses disappears.

Tisa Farrow, sister to Mia Farrow, is one of them. Tisa left the U.S for the sunny Italy and appeared in films like Zombi 2 (1979) and The Grim Reaper (aka The Anthropophagous Beast, 1980). She also had roles in Blazing Magnum (1977) and Search and Destroy (1981). A vicious rumor sez that Tisa nowadays makes her money from driving a cab in New York! Have that in mind if you happens to be there. And say hello from me will you!

The eighties had many lovely scream queens, one of the best was Katherine MacColl. This lady had the female lead in most of her husband (!) Lucio Fulci’s zombiefilms. Who could ignore her when she calls out for »Bob« for the onemillionth time in House by the Cemetery (1981), or when she nearly gets snuffed by Christopher George when he’s about to save her from being buried alive in City of the Living Dead (1981)? Or when Kath and David Warbeck shoot zombies like hell (or to hell), in The Beyond (1980). Katherine come back, we all miss you.

Marino Girolami’s Dr. Butcher, M.D (1980) had Alexandra Delli Colli running around both dressed and in the nude, delivering the most silly dialogue since The Marx Brothers. Not a very good actress, but at least she gives us gorehounds our money worth. In New York Ripper (1983) Alexandra is even more naked and she even gets toe-fucked under a table »Morales got silvertoes« and later tied up and sliced up. 

When Fulci made New York Ripper he didn’t just go for the eyes. Even the vaginas are damaged in graphic detail. Zora Kerova get’s a broken bottle up her snatch, which seems to be more painful than to be hanged in the breasts which she was in Cannibal Ferox (aka Make Them Die Slowly, 1981). If I say; knife through the head, vomiting up her own intestines and cut up with a razor (not in the same film though), you may think of Daniela Doria. The poor girl that Fulci kills in the most ghastly ways. Rumour sez that the intestines Daniela barfed up in City of the Living Dead was real. The knife in House by the Cemetery was not real because she lived long enough to get snuffed by the razor in New York Ripper.

Since New York Ripper I haven’t found any film including either Alexandra, Daniela or Zora. Snuff or Not? This column will probably show up again, so if you want to tell where some of these people have gone, feel free. We love letters, as long as they are polite. See ya’ soon.


BY CHRISTER PERSSON
