Titel: Argento speaks! Interview by Andrea Giorgi (Publicerad i Violent Vision 1995-1999)

The thriller and horror cinema is going through a good period after the Oscar going to the stars of The Silence of the Lambs. And Dracula was a big success. What do you think of these?

Dracula didn't convince me completely. The first part set in Romania could have been much more interesting and the second part could be easily forgotten. I found it to be false, without any style. This happened because Coppola did something just to get money out of it. However, luckily the audience did approve of the film. I'm saying this even though I respect him a lot. The Silence of the Lambs, well, I think it is extremely up to date. Psycho thrillers are always on the front page of the newspapers. However, there are differences between the book and the film. In this we slip away more parts that are emphasised in Harris book. It's the same with Manhunter which is a film taken from another book by the writer (Red Dragon). I loved the book, but I didn't like the film.

There's also John Landis' Innocent Blood. What's your opinion on this and how were you involved?

I can say that John Landis is a very good friend of mine. He told me that he decided he wanted to become a director after seeing The Bird with the Crystal Plumage. Before that he was only a floor boy. I did help him with the film, to set up the dummies. I helped the actors repeat their parts and together we discussed the frame. I also had a small cameo role. It was all very interesting.

Your films have been good examples of psycho thrillers for many directors and films in the seventies and eighties such as John Carpenter. But I want to have your opinion on one particular film in this genre, Henry-Portrait of a Serial Killer.

I saw this film some years ago when I was in America. McNaughton, the director, told me that he had produced a cold and violent film that couldn't be presented to any audience. It has such a direct impact on the audience. It's a biography that describes but does not comment. It's really almost a documentary. I was impressed by that style, it was really original. I thought that kind of film couldn't be distributed in Italy. Fortunately I was wrong.

Recently your latest work has been released, Trauma. Do you want to tell us something about it?

In America the critics are saying that the film is really different from my previous ones. They are saying that I have given up my old way of making films, that I have improved. To tell the truth, I don't really see a lot of difference. Perhaps I personally have to watch it a thousand times to realize what I have done.

What was your inspiration for Trauma?

I took it from reality. I was in a city in America, walking along the street when I saw an extremely thin girl who was vomiting. She was totally ignored by the passing people. I then began to grow an interest in the problems caused by anorexia. I wrote a little short story called L'Enigma di Aura (Aura's enigma) and then I slowly developed it.

Do you think that Trauma was from the beginning written with the idea that your daughter Asia would play the lead part or did you decide that later?

While I was writing the plot and the characters were coming alive I realised that the part of Aura would be perfect for Asia to play. Meanwhile as I wrote the story, Asia understood my choice. She was noticing that I studied her, spying on her. So when I told her she would be the protagonist of my film she already knew. However she has been really good. She really showed a side of her personality and a character that even I wasn't aware of.

Trauma has less scenes of violence, less blood. Is this the first time that you have made a film for everybody? What are the reasons? Was it because films nowadays must be sold to TV?

Sure. Today, without funding from TV, it's almost impossible to make a film. In previous years my work, that has appeared on TV, has been cut indecently. So I decided that I would produce a film where the audience wouldn't feel obliged to close their eyes.

Filmography:

Non ho sonno (2001)... aka I Can't Sleep (2001) Phantom of the Opera (1998) Sindrome di Stendhal, La (1996)... aka Stendhal Syndrome, The... aka Stendhal's Syndrome Trauma (1991) Two Evil Eyes (1990) Opera (1987)... aka Terror at the Opera Phenomena (1984)... aka Creepers Tenebre (1982)... aka Shadow... aka Sotto gli occhi dell'assassino... aka Tenebrae... aka Unsane Inferno (1980) Suspiria (1977) Profondo rosso (1975)... aka Deep Red... aka Deep Red Hatchet Murders... aka Dripping Deep Red... aka Hatchet Murders, The... aka Sabre Tooth Tiger, The... aka Suspiria 2 Cinque giornate, Le (1973)... aka Five Days in Milan, The 4 mosche di velluto grigio (1971)... aka Four Flies on Grey Velvet... aka Four Patches of Grey Velvet Gatto a nove code, Il (1970)... aka Cat o' Nine Tails, The Uccello dalle piume di cristallo, L' (1969)... aka Bird with the Crystal Plumage, The... aka Bird with the Glass Feathers... aka Gallery Murders, The... aka Phantom of Terror
